# Agent-based model implementation for CWD dynamics

## Overview

The following repo contains code for implementing grid-based ABM modeling for Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD). We utilize `Agents.jl`, a Julia-based framework for efficient ABM simulation. We implement [Modeling Routes of Chronic Wasting Disease
Transmission: Environmental Prion Persistence Promotes
Deer Population Decline and Extinction](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article/file?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0019896&type=printable), which provides an aspatial model for long-term CWD transmission in deer.

## Setup

### Installation

#### macOS/Unix

- Install Julia:
  - Run `curl -fsSL https://install.julialang.org | sh` in a terminal
  - Restart terminal, type in `julia` to make sure it does something

#### Windows:

- Install Julia:
  - Run `winget install --name Julia --id 9NJNWW8PVKMN -e -s msstore`
  - Restart Powershell, type in `julia` to make sure it does something

### Environment

VSCode is the environment of choice. Add the Julia extension on VSCode for linting and a language server. To set up:

- Open this repository in VSCode after installing the language extension
- Navigate to `run_simulation.jl`
- Press Ctrl+Shift+P (Cmd+Shift+P on Mac) to open the command palette, type and select "Restart Julia REPL"
- In the REPL window, type in ']' to enter package mode. Type 'instantiate' to install all the necessary packages

### Running the code

The main entry point is through `run_simulation.jl`. Navigate to this file, then press F5 to run the code. Comment out necessary parts in the file to generate video, images, or run the interactive sim.

## Structure

- `results/`: Static assets (images, videos) generated by main script
- `scripts/`:
  - `run_simulation.jl`: Main entry point, used as the main harness for running experiments
- `SEIC Model`
  - `SEIC_rules.md`: Rules governing our model usage and parameters
- `src/`: Primary directory for code relating to model setup

## Resources

- The paper we are implementing [Modeling Routes of Chronic Wasting Disease
  Transmission: Environmental Prion Persistence Promotes
  Deer Population Decline and Extinction](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article/file?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0019896&type=printable)
- [Agents.jl examples and documentation](https://juliadynamics.github.io/Agents.jl/stable/examples/sir/)
- [Mesa.py examples](https://mesa.readthedocs.io/latest/examples.html#advanced-examples)
